---
layout:     post
title:      SQLZoo Exercise Q&A 4
subtitle:   SELECT within SELECT Tutorial
date:       2018-02-02
author:     Haby
header-img: img/post-bg-2015.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - MySQL
---
<font size = '6'> SQLZoo Exercise </font>
<font size = '5'>  SELECT within SELECT Tutorial </font>

> Data and Question From SQLZoo(http://sqlzoo.net/wiki/SELECT_within_SELECT_Tutorial)

1.List each country name where the population is larger than that of 'Russia'.

    select name
    from world
    where population > (select population from world where name= 'Russia')


2.Show the countries in Europe with a per capita GDP greater than 'United Kingdom'.

    select name
    from world
    where continent = 'Europe' and
    (gdp/population) > (select gdp/population from world where name = 'United kingdom')


3.List the name and continent of countries in the continents containing either Argentina or Australia. Order by name of the country.

    select name,continent
    from world
    where continent in (select continent from world where name in ('Argentina','Australia'))
    order by name


4.Which country has a population that is more than Canada but less than Poland? Show the name and the population.

    select name,population
    from world
    where population > (select population from world where name = 'Canada')
    and population < (select population from world where name = 'Poland')


5.Germany (population 80 million) has the largest population of the countries in Europe. Austria (population 8.5 million) has 11% of the population of Germany.

Show the name and the population of each country in Europe. Show the population as a percentage of the population of Germany.

    select name,
    concat(round((population/(select population from world where name = 'Germany')*100),0),'%') as Pop_perc
    from world
    where continent = 'Europe'
    order by Pop_perc


6.Which countries have a GDP greater than every country in Europe? [Give the name only.] (Some countries may have NULL gdp values)

    select name
    from world
    where gdp > all(
      select gdp from world where continent = 'Europe' and gdp > 0)


7.Find the largest country (by area) in each continent, show the continent, the name and the area:

    select continent,area
    from world as w1
    where area = (select max(area)
    from world as w2
    where w1.continent = w2.continent)


8.List each continent and the name of the country that comes first alphabetically.

    select continent,name
    from world as w1
    where name = (
      select name from world as w2 where w1.continent = w2.continent
      order by name limit 1)


9.Find the continents where all countries have a population <= 25000000. Then find the names of the countries associated with these continents. Show name, continent and population.

    select w1.name,w1.continent,w1.population
    from world as w1
    where 25000000 > all(
      select w2.population from world as w2 where w1.continent = w2.continent )


10.Some countries have populations more than three times that of any of their neighbours (in the same continent). Give the countries and continents.

    select name,continent
    from world as w1
    where population > all(
      select 3*population from world as w2 where w1.continent = w2.continent and w1.name != w2.name)
