---
layout:     post
title:      SQLZoo Exercise Q&A
subtitle:   SELECT from WORLD Tutorial
date:       2017-02-01
author:     Haby
header-img: img/post-bg-2015.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - MySQL
---
<font size = '6'> SQLZoo Exercise </font>
<font size = '5'> SELECT from WORLD Tutorial </font>

> Data and Question From SQLZoo (http://sqlzoo.net/wiki/SELECT_from_WORLD_Tutorial)


<font size = '6'> Working Environment </font>


    Data : http://sqlzoo.net/

    MySQL 5.7.21

    GUI : HeidiSQL 9.5.0.5196

    OS : Windows 10 v1702 64 bit

    text editor : Atom Version 1.23.3

<font size = '6'> Data Details </font>

WORLD

	name	continent	area	population	gdp
	Afghanistan	Asia	652230	25500100	20343000000
	Albania		Europe	28748	2831741		12960000000
	Algeria		Africa	2381741	37100000	188681000000
	Andorra		Europe	468	78115		3712000000
	Angola		Africa	1246700	20609294	100990000000
	...

NOBEL

	yr	subject		winner
	1960	Chemistry	Willard F. Libby
	1960	Literature	Saint-John Perse
	1960	Medicine	Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet
	1960	Medicine	Peter Madawar
	...

Game

	id	mdate		stadium				team1	team2
	1001	8 June 2012	National Stadium, Warsaw	POL	GRE
	1002	8 June 2012	Stadion Miejski (Wroclaw)	RUS	CZE
	1003	12 June 2012	Stadion Miejski (Wroclaw)	GRE	CZE
	1004	12 June 2012	National Stadium, Warsaw	POL	RUS
	...


Goal

	matchid	teamid	player			gtime
	1001	POL	Robert Lewandowski	17
	1001	GRE	Dimitris Salpingidis	51
	1002	RUS	Alan Dzagoev		15
	1002	RUS	Roman Pavlyuchenko	82
	...


Eteam

	id	teamname	coach
	POL	Poland		Franciszek Smuda
	RUS	Russia		Dick Advocaat
	CZE	Czech Republic	Michal Bilek
	GRE	Greece		Fernando Santos
	...


Movie

	id	title			yr	director	budget		gross
	10003	"Crocodile" Dundee II	1988	38		15800000	239606210
	10004	'Til There Was You	1997	49		10000000
	...


Actor

	id	name
	20	Paul Hogan
	50	Jeanne Tripplehorn
	...


Casting

	movieid	actorid	ord
	10003	20	4
	10004	50	1


Teacher

	id	dept		name			phone	mobile
	101	1		Shrivell		2753	07986 555 1234
	102	1		Throd			2754	07122 555 1920
	103	1		Splint			2293
	104			Spiregrain		3287
	105	2		Cutflower		3212	07996 555 6574
	106			Deadyawn		3345
	...


dept

	id	name
	1	Computing
	2	Design
	3	Engineering
	...


Edinburgh Buses.

stops

	Field	Type			Notes
	id 	INTEGER		Arbitrary value
	name	CHAR(30)	The name of an area served by at least one bus

route

	Field	Type					Notes
	num	CHAR(5)	The number of the bus - as it appears on the front of the vehicle. Oddly these numbers often include letters
	company	CHAR(3)	Several bus companies operate in Edinburgh. The main one is Lothian Region Transport - LRT
	pos	INTEGER	This indicates the order of the stop within the route. Some routes may revisit a stop. Most buses go in both directions.
	stop	INTEGER	This references the stops table


QA - 1

1.Read the notes about this table. Observe the result of running this SQL command to show the name, continent and population of all countries.


    SELECT name, continent, population FROM world



2.How to use WHERE to filter records. Show the name for the countries that have a population of at least 200 million. 200 million is 200000000, there are eight zeros.


    SELECT name FROM world
    WHERE population > 200000000



3.
Give the name and the per capita GDP for those countries with a population of at least 200 million.


    select name,gdp/population as pc_gdp
    from world
    where population > 200000000



4.
Show the name and population in millions for the countries of the continent 'South America'. Divide the population by 1000000 to get population in millions.


    select name,population/1000000 as 'Population (M)'
    from world
    where continent = 'South America'



5.
Show the name and population for France, Germany, Italy


    select name, population
    from world
    where name in ('France','Germany','Italy')



6.
Show the countries which have a name that includes the word 'United'


    select name
    from world
    where name like 'United%'



7.
Two ways to be big: A country is big if it has an area of more than 3 million sq km or it has a population of more than 250 million.

Show the countries that are big by area or big by population. Show name, population and area.


    select name,population ,area
    from world
    where area > 3000000 or population > 250000000



8.
Exclusive OR (XOR). Show the countries that are big by area or big by population but not both. Show name, population and area.

Australia has a big area but a small population, it should be included.
Indonesia has a big population but a small area, it should be included.
China has a big population and big area, it should be excluded.
United Kingdom has a small population and a small area, it should be excluded.


    select name,population,area
    from world
    where (area < 3000000 and population > 250000000) or (area > 3000000 and population < 250000000)



9.
Show the name and population in millions and the GDP in billions for the countries of the continent 'South America'. Use the ROUND function to show the values to two decimal places.

For South America show population in millions and GDP in billions both to 2 decimal places.
Millions and billions


    select name,round(population/1000000,2) as 'Population(M)',round(gdp/1000000000,2) as 'GDP(B)'
    from world
    where continent = 'South America'



10.
Show the name and per-capita GDP for those countries with a GDP of at least one trillion (1000000000000; that is 12 zeros). Round this value to the nearest 1000.

Show per-capita GDP for the trillion dollar countries to the nearest $1000.


    select name,round(gdp/population/1000,0) * 1000
    from world
    where gdp > 1000000000000



11.
Greece has capital Athens.
Each of the strings 'Greece', and 'Athens' has 6 characters.
Show the name and capital where the name and the capital have the same number of characters.
You can use the LENGTH function to find the number of characters in a string


    SELECT name,  capital
    fROM world
    where length(name) = length(capital)



12.
The capital of Sweden is Stockholm. Both words start with the letter 'S'.
Show the name and the capital where the first letters of each match. Don't include countries where the name and the capital are the same word.
You can use the function LEFT to isolate the first character.
You can use <> as the NOT EQUALS operator.


    select name,capital
    from world
    where left(capital,1) = left(name,1) and (capital != name)



13.
Equatorial Guinea and Dominican Republic have all of the vowels (a e i o u) in the name. They don't count because they have more than one word in the name.
Find the country that has all the vowels and no spaces in its name.
You can use the phrase name NOT LIKE '%a%' to exclude characters from your results.
The query shown misses countries like Bahamas and Belarus because they contain at least one 'a'


    select name
    from world
    where name not like '%a%e%i%o%u%' and name not like '% %'



QA - 2

1.
Change the query shown so that it displays Nobel prizes for 1950.

    SELECT yr, subject, winner
    FROM nobel
    WHERE yr = 1950


2.
Show who won the 1962 prize for Literature.

    SELECT winner
      FROM nobel
     WHERE yr = 1962
       AND subject = 'Literature'


3.
Show the year and subject that won 'Albert Einstein' his prize.

    select yr,subject
    from nobel
    where winner = 'Albert Einstein'


4.
Give the name of the 'Peace' winners since the year 2000, including 2000.

    select winner
    from nobel
    where subject = 'Peace' and yr >= 2000


5.
Show all details (yr, subject, winner) of the Literature prize winners for 1980 to 1989 inclusive.

    select *
    from nobel
    where subject = 'Literature' and yr between 1980 and 1989


6.
Show all details of the presidential winners:

Theodore Roosevelt
Woodrow Wilson
Jimmy Carter
Barack Obama

    SELECT * FROM nobel
    where winner in ('Theodore Roosevelt','Woodrow Wilson','Jimmy Carter','Barack Obama')


7.
Show the winners with first name John

    select winner
    from nobel
    where winner like 'John%'


8.
Show the year, subject, and name of Physics winners for 1980 together with the Chemistry winners for 1984.

    select *
    from nobel
    where (yr = 1984 and subject = 'Chemistry') or (yr = 1980 and subject = 'Physics')


9.
Show the year, subject, and name of winners for 1980 excluding Chemistry and Medicine

    select *
    from nobel
    where yr = 1980 and subject not in ('Chemistry','Medicine')


10.
Show year, subject, and name of people who won a 'Medicine' prize in an early year (before 1910, not including 1910) together with winners of a 'Literature' prize in a later year (after 2004, including 2004)

    select *
    from nobel
    where (subject = 'Medicine' and yr < 1910) or
    (subject = 'Literature' and yr >=2004)


11.
Find all details of the prize won by PETER GR¨¹NBERG
>This word can't show up on my Atom utf-8, but works fine on html

    select *
    from nobel
    where winner = 'PETER GR¨¹NBERG'


12.
 Find all details of the prize won by EUGENE O'NEILL

    select *
    from nobel
    where winner = 'EUGENE O''NEILL'


13.
Knights in order
List the winners, year and subject where the winner starts with Sir. Show the the most recent first, then by name order.

    select winner,yr,subject
    from nobel
    where winner like 'Sir%'
    order by yr desc


14.
The expression subject IN ('Chemistry','Physics') can be used as a value - it will be 0 or 1.
Show the 1984 winners and subject ordered by subject and winner name; but list Chemistry and Physics last.

    select winner, subject
    from nobel
    where yr = 1984
    order by subject in ('Chemistry','Physics'), subject,winner

QA - 3

1.List each country name where the population is larger than that of 'Russia'.

    select name
    from world
    where population > (select population from world where name= 'Russia')


2.Show the countries in Europe with a per capita GDP greater than 'United Kingdom'.

    select name
    from world
    where continent = 'Europe' and
    (gdp/population) > (select gdp/population from world where name = 'United kingdom')


3.List the name and continent of countries in the continents containing either Argentina or Australia. Order by name of the country.

    select name,continent
    from world
    where continent in (select continent from world where name in ('Argentina','Australia'))
    order by name


4.Which country has a population that is more than Canada but less than Poland? Show the name and the population.

    select name,population
    from world
    where population > (select population from world where name = 'Canada')
    and population < (select population from world where name = 'Poland')


5.Germany (population 80 million) has the largest population of the countries in Europe. Austria (population 8.5 million) has 11% of the population of Germany.

Show the name and the population of each country in Europe. Show the population as a percentage of the population of Germany.

    select name,
    concat(round((population/(select population from world where name = 'Germany')* 100),0),'%') as Pop_perc
    from world
    where continent = 'Europe'
    order by Pop_perc


6.Which countries have a GDP greater than every country in Europe? [Give the name only.] (Some countries may have NULL gdp values)

    select name
    from world
    where gdp > all(
      select gdp from world where continent = 'Europe' and gdp > 0)


7.Find the largest country (by area) in each continent, show the continent, the name and the area:

    select continent,area
    from world as w1
    where area = (select max(area)
    from world as w2
    where w1.continent = w2.continent)


8.List each continent and the name of the country that comes first alphabetically.

    select continent,name
    from world as w1
    where name = (
      select name from world as w2 where w1.continent = w2.continent
      order by name limit 1)


9.Find the continents where all countries have a population <= 25000000. Then find the names of the countries associated with these continents. Show name, continent and population.

    select w1.name,w1.continent,w1.population
    from world as w1
    where 25000000 > all(
      select w2.population from world as w2 where w1.continent = w2.continent )


10.Some countries have populations more than three times that of any of their neighbours (in the same continent). Give the countries and continents.

    select name,continent
    from world as w1
    where population > all(
      select 3*population from world as w2 where w1.continent = w2.continent and w1.name != w2.name)

QA - 4

1.
How many stops are in the database.

    select count(distinct stop)
    from route


2.
Find the id value for the stop 'Craiglockhart'

    select id
    from stops
    where name =  'Craiglockhart'


3.
Give the id and the name for the stops on the '4' 'LRT' service.

    select id,name
    from stops inner join route
    on stops.id = route.stop
    where num = 4 and company = 'LRT'


4.
The query shown gives the number of routes that visit either London Road (149) or Craiglockhart (53). Run the query and notice the two services that link these stops have a count of 2. Add a HAVING clause to restrict the output to these two routes.

    SELECT company, num, COUNT( * ) as N
    FROM route
    WHERE stop=149 OR stop=53
    GROUP BY company, num
    having count(* ) = 2


5.
Execute the self join shown and observe that b.stop gives all the places you can get to from Craiglockhart, without changing routes. Change the query so that it shows the services from Craiglockhart to London Road.

    SELECT a.company, a.num, a.stop, b.stop
    FROM route a JOIN route b ON
      (a.company=b.company AND a.num=b.num)
    WHERE a.stop=53


6.
The query shown is similar to the previous one, however by joining two copies of the stops table we can refer to stops by name rather than by number. Change the query so that the services between 'Craiglockhart' and 'London Road' are shown. If you are tired of these places try 'Fairmilehead' against 'Tollcross'

    SELECT a.company, a.num, stopa.name, stopb.name
    FROM route a JOIN route b ON
      (a.company=b.company AND a.num=b.num)
      JOIN stops stopa ON (a.stop=stopa.id)
      JOIN stops stopb ON (b.stop=stopb.id)
    WHERE stopa.name='Craiglockhart' and stopb.name = 'London Road'


7.
Give a list of all the services which connect stops 115 and 137 ('Haymarket' and 'Leith')

    select distinct a.company,a.num
    from route as a inner join route as b
    on a.company = b.company and a.num = b.num
    where a.stop = 115 and b.stop = 137


8.
Give a list of the services which connect the stops 'Craiglockhart' and 'Tollcross'

    select distinct a.company,a.num
    from route as a inner join route as b
    on a.company = b.company and a.num = b.num
    where a.stop = (select id from stops where name = 'Craiglockhart')
    and b.stop = (select id from stops where name = 'Tollcross')


9.
Give a distinct list of the stops which may be reached from 'Craiglockhart' by taking one bus, including 'Craiglockhart' itself, offered by the LRT company. Include the company and bus no. of the relevant services.

    select stops.name, a.company,a.num
    from route as a inner join route as b
    on a.company = b.company and a.num = b.num
    inner join stops
    on stops.id = b.stop
    where a.stop = (select id from stops where name = 'Craiglockhart')
    and a.company = 'LRT'


10.
Find the routes involving two buses that can go from Craiglockhart to Sighthill.
Show the bus no. and company for the first bus, the name of the stop for the transfer,and the bus no. and company for the second bus.

    select distinct ta.num,ta.company,ta.name,tb.num,tb.company
    from
    (select a.num,a.company,b.stop,stops.name
    from route as a inner join route as b
    on a.company = b.company and a.num = b.num
    inner join stops on stops.id = b.stop
    where a.stop = (select id from stops where name = 'Craiglockhart')) as ta
    inner join
    (select a.num,a.company,a.stop
    from route as a inner join route as b
    on a.company = b.company and a.num = b.num
    where b.stop = (select id from stops where name = 'Sighthill')) as tb
    on ta.stop = tb.stop


QA - 5

1.
Show the total population of the world.

    SELECT SUM(population)
    FROM world


2.
List all the continents - just once each.

    select distinct continent
    from world


3.
Give the total GDP of Africa

    select sum(gdp) as 'Total GDP'
    from world
    where continent = 'Africa'


4.
How many countries have an area of at least 1000000

    select count(name) as 'Number of Countries'
    from world
    where area > 1000000


5.
What is the total population of ('Estonia', 'Latvia', 'Lithuania')

    select sum(population)
    from world
    where name in ('Estonia', 'Latvia', 'Lithuania')


6.
For each continent show the continent and number of countries.

    select continent,count(name) as 'Number of Countries'
    from world
    group by continent


7.
For each continent show the continent and number of countries with populations of at least 10 million.

    select continent,count(name)
    from world
    where population > 10000000
    group by continent


8.
List the continents that have a total population of at least 100 million.

    select continent
    from world
    group by continent
    having sum(population) > 100000000


QA - 6

1.
The first example shows the goal scored by a player with the last name 'Bender'. The * says to list all the columns in the table - a shorter way of #saying matchid, teamid, player, gtime Modify it to show the matchid and player name for all goals scored by Germany. To identify German players, check for: teamid = 'GER'

    select matchid,player
    from goal
    where teamid = 'GER'


2.
From the previous query you can see that Lars Bender's scored a goal in game 1012. Now we want to know what teams were playing in that match.
Notice in the that the column matchid in the goal table corresponds to the id column in the game table. We can look up information about game 1012 #by finding that row in the game table.
Show id, stadium, team1, team2 for just game 1012


    SELECT id,stadium,team1,team2
    FROM game
    where id = 1012


3.
You can combine the two steps into a single query with a JOIN.
The FROM clause says to merge data from the goal table with that from the game table. The ON says how to figure out which rows in game go with #which rows in goal - the id from goal must match matchid from game. (If we wanted to be more clear/specific we could say
ON (game.id=goal.matchid)

    SELECT player,teamid,stadium,mdate
      FROM game JOIN goal ON (id=matchid)
    where teamid = 'Ger'


4.
Use the same JOIN as in the previous question.

Show the team1, team2 and player for every goal scored by a player called Mario player LIKE 'Mario%'

    select ga.team1,ga.team2,go.player
    from game as ga inner join goal as go
    on ga.id = go.matchid
    where go.player like 'Mario%'


5.
The table eteam gives details of every national team including the coach. You can JOIN goal to eteam using the phrase goal JOIN eteam on teamid=id
Show player, teamid, coach, gtime for all goals scored in the first 10 minutes gtime<=10

    SELECT go.player, go.teamid, e.coach, go.gtime
    FROM goal as go inner join eteam as e
    on go.teamid = e.id
    WHERE gtime<=10


6.
To JOIN game with eteam you could use either
game JOIN eteam ON (team1=eteam.id) or game JOIN eteam ON (team2=eteam.id)
Notice that because id is a column name in both game and eteam you must specify eteam.id instead of just id
List the the dates of the matches and the name of the team in which 'Fernando Santos' was the team1 coach.

    select ga.mdate,e.teamname
    from game as ga inner join eteam as e
    on ga.team1 = e.id
    where e.coach = 'Fernando Santos'


7.
List the player for every goal scored in a game where the stadium was 'National Stadium, Warsaw'

    select go.player
    from goal as go inner join game as ga
    on go.matchid = ga.id
    where ga.stadium = 'National Stadium, Warsaw'


8.
The example query shows all goals scored in the Germany-Greece quarterfinal.
Instead show the name of all players who scored a goal against Germany.

    SELECT distinct player
    FROM game JOIN goal ON matchid = id
    WHERE ((team1='GER' and team2!='GER') or (team1!='GER' and team2='GER')) and goal.teamid != 'GER'


9.
Show teamname and the total number of goals scored.

    SELECT teamname, count(teamid)
    FROM eteam JOIN goal ON id=teamid
    group by teamname


10.
Show the stadium and the number of goals scored in each stadium.

    select stadium,count(teamid)
    from game as ga inner join goal as go
    on ga.id = go.matchid
    group by stadium


11.
For every match involving 'POL', show the matchid, date and the number of goals scored.

    SELECT matchid,mdate, count(goal.teamid)
    FROM game JOIN goal ON matchid = id
    WHERE (team1 = 'POL' OR team2 = 'POL')
    group by matchid,mdate


12.
For every match where 'GER' scored, show matchid, match date and the number of goals scored by 'GER'

    select matchid,mdate,count(teamid)
    from game as ga inner join goal as go
    on ga.id = go.matchid
    where (team1 = 'GER' or team2 = 'GER') and teamid = 'GER'
    group by matchid,mdate


13.
List every match with the goals scored by each team as shown. This will use "CASE WHEN" which has not been explained in any previous exercises.
mdate	team1	score1	team2	score2
1 July 2012	ESP	4	ITA	0
10 June 2012	ESP	1	ITA	1
10 June 2012	IRL	1	CRO	3
...
Notice in the query given every goal is listed. If it was a team1 goal then a 1 appears in score1, otherwise there is a 0. You could SUM this #column to get a count of the goals scored by team1. Sort your result by mdate, matchid, team1 and team2.

    SELECT mdate,team1,
    sum((CASE WHEN teamid=team1 THEN 1 ELSE 0 END)) as score1,team2,
    sum((case when teamid = team2 then 1 else 0 end)) as score2
    FROM game JOIN goal ON matchid = id
    group by mdate,team1,team2
    order by mdate,matchid,team1,team2

QA - 7

1.
List the teachers who have NULL for their department.

    select name
    from teacher
    where dept is null


2.
Note the INNER JOIN misses the teachers with no department and the departments with no teacher.

    SELECT teacher.name, dept.name
     FROM teacher INNER JOIN dept
               ON (teacher.dept=dept.id)


3.
Use a different JOIN so that all teachers are listed.

    select teacher.name,dept.name
    from teacher left join dept
    on teacher.dept = dept.id


4.
Use a different JOIN so that all departments are listed.

    select teacher.name,dept.name
    from teacher right join dept
    on teacher.dept = dept.id


5.
Use COALESCE to print the mobile number. Use the number '07986 444 2266' if there is no number given. Show teacher name and mobile number or '07986 444 2266'

    select name,coalesce(mobile,'07986 444 2266') as Number
    from teacher


6.
Use the COALESCE function and a LEFT JOIN to print the teacher name and department name. Use the string 'None' where there is no department.

    select teacher.name,coalesce(dept.name,'None') as DEPT
    from teacher left join dept
    on teacher.dept = dept.id


7.
Use COUNT to show the number of teachers and the number of mobile phones.

    select count(name),count(mobile)
    from teacher


8.
Use COUNT and GROUP BY dept.name to show each department and the number of staff. Use a RIGHT JOIN to ensure that the Engineering department is listed.

    select dept.name,count(teacher.name)
    from teacher right join dept
    on teacher.dept = dept.id
    group by dept.name


9.
Use CASE to show the name of each teacher followed by 'Sci' if the teacher is in dept 1 or 2 and 'Art' otherwise.

    select teacher.name,
    (case when dept in (1,2) then 'Sci' else 'Art' end) as D
    from teacher


10.
Use CASE to show the name of each teacher followed by 'Sci' if the teacher is in dept 1 or 2, show 'Art' if the teacher's dept is 3 and 'None' otherwise.

    select teacher.name,
    (case when dept in (1,2) then 'Sci' when dept = 3 then 'Art' else 'None' end) as D
    from teacher

QA - 8

1.
List the films where the yr is 1962 [Show id, title]

    SELECT id, title
    FROM movie
    WHERE yr=1962


2.
Give year of 'Citizen Kane'.

    select yr
    from movie
    where title = 'Citizen Kane'


3.
List all of the Star Trek movies, include the id, title and yr (all of these movies include the words Star Trek in the title). Order results by #year.

    select id,title,yr
    from movie
    where title like '%Star Trek%'
    order by yr


4.
What id number does the actor 'Glenn Close' have?

    select id
    from actor
    where name = 'Glenn Close'


5.
What is the id of the film 'Casablanca'

    select id
    from movie
    where title = 'Casablanca'


6.
Obtain the cast list for 'Casablanca'.

    select distinct name
    from actor inner join casting
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where movieid = 11768


7.
Obtain the cast list for the film 'Alien'

    select actor.name
    from (actor inner join casting
    on actor.id = casting.actorid) inner join movie
    on movie.id = casting.movieid
    where movie.title = 'Alien'


8.
List the films in which 'Harrison Ford' has appeared

    select movie.title
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where actor.name = 'Harrison Ford'


9.
List the films where 'Harrison Ford' has appeared - but not in the starring role. [Note: the ord field of casting gives the position of the actor. #If ord=1 then this actor is in the starring role]

    select movie.title
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where actor.name = 'Harrison Ford' and casting.ord != 1


10.
List the films together with the leading star for all 1962 films.

    select movie.title,actor.name
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where movie.yr = '1962' and casting.ord = 1


11.
Which were the busiest years for 'John Travolta', show the year and the number of movies he made each year for any year in which he made more than #2 movies.

    SELECT yr,COUNT(title) FROM
    movie JOIN casting ON movie.id=movieid
           JOIN actor   ON actorid=actor.id
    where name='John Travolta'
    GROUP BY yr
    HAVING COUNT(title)=(SELECT MAX(c) FROM
    (SELECT yr,COUNT(title) AS c FROM
     movie JOIN casting ON movie.id=movieid
           JOIN actor   ON actorid=actor.id
    where name='John Travolta'
    GROUP BY yr) AS t
    )


12.
List the film title and the leading actor for all of the films 'Julie Andrews' played in.

    select movie.title,actor.name
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where movieid in (select casting.movieid
    from casting inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where actor.name = 'Julie Andrews') and casting.ord = 1


13.
Obtain a list, in alphabetical order, of actors who've had at least 30 starring roles.

    select name
    from(
    select count(movie.id) as N,name
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where casting.ord = 1
    group by name
    order by N desc) as temp
    where temp.N >= 30
    order by name


14.
List the films released in the year 1978 ordered by the number of actors in the cast, then by title.

    select title,count(actorid) as N
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where yr = 1978
    group by title
    order by N desc,title


15.
List all the people who have worked with 'Art Garfunkel'.

    select distinct actor.name
    from (movie inner join casting
    on movie.id = casting.movieid) inner join actor
    on casting.actorid = actor.id
    where movieid in(select movieid
                   from casting inner join actor
                   on casting.actorid = actor.id
                   where name = 'Art Garfunkel')
    and name != 'Art Garfunkel'
